Good branding takes a more complex logo and can simplify it further to be able to exist on its own.
For example Lillian's logo can be simplified to exist as a smaller icon for example we can then take
this icon and create a background watermark to use as background for letterheads this takes our finished
logo and takes to the next level branding.
Not only do we have a full logo but we can also develop these icons illustrations.
What they say is brand assets that can be used on our Web site letterheads invoices and little creative
details and flair to help further communicate our style and personal preferences.
Maybe there's a consistent texture that is used throughout all of your materials.
There could even be a series of shapes or geometric shapes that are used as common supporting graphics
to help to continue to elevate your brand theme across all channels.
Are you a designer who focuses on icon design for example you could create an entire series of personal
icons and create a pattern background for use on all materials giving your brand a consistent matching
feel once again if you're hiring someone else to create this for you.
Make sure you share your thoughts and ideas with them on this.
Just an example if you're a photographer maybe you can share your personal favorite photos and maybe
they can create a background graphic to use the branded asset your task is to create several branded
assets you can use alongside your logo.
This could be a background texture separator bars for example or icons you can use.
These assets will come in handy as we create your business cards and other branded materials and feature
lessons you could start to incorporate some of those headline phrases we developed in the goal section
of the class.
Those headline phrases will be great for Instagram and the business cards we'll be creating together
in the next lesson before we start creating a few example assets for our brand.
Lilian HERNANDEZ I wanted to go over a few tips when creating your brand assets.
Make sure there's a consistent theme throughout your logo and branded assets.
This will make your brand cohesive and interesting.
Notice similar color usage throughout these branded elements.
Did you notice similar treatment to the style of typography as well.
Make sure these asset elements are in separate files so you can use them independently for a multitude
of situations.
This may be more for those who hire someone to create their personal brands need to have all the icons
as separate files.
So in case the need to use one when creating another branded marketing material you'll have all those
assets and a nice neat folder and ready to access.
Don't be afraid to be creative.
Remember we're developing personal brands for creative freelancers.
Be bold find your style and maximize it.
This is the chance to be creative with branding.
Not everyone gets this chance as the only limits you set are the ones you set for yourself.
So now we're going to create a broadening standards manual for our freelancing company branding standards
are a little bit different than inspiration boards branding standards or sometimes they're called branding
manuals or guides outlines and overviews your entire brand.
This helps to explain to others who may be creating assets for you how to use your brand assets and
logo.
It also explains in details your color palette and when to use certain colors it will show the many
different formats in which your logo can exist including single color full color and other variations
that might be used for different situations.
Will also show what font choices are suitable for use when creating your branded materials including
a headline or a larger sized font as well as what font to use for your smaller body copy these also
show any the other branded assets like textures patterns icons and more.
I find great branding standards manuals include a few Finnish designs including a business card or a
social media post just to show how these branded assets are being used and how to properly use them.
I wanted to show you how messy it is to create all your brand assets in our logo design.
So this is just the logo concept process was really trying to find the right fonts and try to find the
right font pairing.
It took some time to figure out what colors I wanted to use as well I tried out quite an array of different
colors I tried bright colors I tried to bring out the colors for my inspiration board to try to pull
things there and so I kind of settled on that green teal color that I pulled from the inspiration board
but I started to develop icons and patterns.
Just having an area to play around with and really produce some ideas and concepts for my brand assets
you can kind of see this kind of mess I created try to think of some maybe some icons that I thought
really connected with what she does which is a graphic designer right cause some basic tools like layout
the pen tool a little typography element they're like she works with Type A lot and also kind of a color
wheel type area.
So just kind of coming up with some generic icons at all.
I did this all in Adobe Illustrator Of course you can use affinity designer you can hire a designer.
A lot of different ways you can approach this but I thought I wanted to kind of show you a little bit
of the mess that it took.
I also made a pattern using the pattern tool in Adobe Illustrator to be able to create that pattern
I thought it'd be great to have a really neat branded asset that I can put on backgrounds and in this
area.
I was still trying to figure out how to best overlay that texture on top.
And this was kind of what I came up with.
I don't think in the end I ended up going with something a little bit more clean but just some ideas
that were running through my head and one to kind of show you my raw process because a lot of people
I don't know a lot of instructors to show the finished polished stuff but I wanted to show you the messy
stuff because this is what it's like when you're creating brands.
It gets messy.
There's a lot of different versions and iterations you have to go through to find that final design.
So this is kind of my rough play area where I'm figuring all this out I'm going to take a lot of this
and put it together in a really nice brand presentation and we're going to be doing that with our brand
manual which is going to be right over here.
So this is the brand manual that I settled with.
You can kind of see how I have the color palette have the choices I've found the inspiration there and
also including that as a part of my brand presentation and we have a couple different versions of the
logo like we talked about a little earlier.
There's a single color version and it can exist and a lot of different primary colors of the brand so
it can exist in the teal it can exists as a watermark which is kind of a lighter gray color it can exist
on the back of a letterhead.
You could put this very easy to read still text on top so just kind of laying out the different arrangements
of logos and you know what happens is when you start to develop your Web site your portfolio your business
cards you'll start to use this logo and you might run into some limitations.
And that's great because you can always revisit your brand manual and add different versions of your
logo.
And so for example when we create our profile our online portfolio we're gonna have some limitations
with a round seal logo because they don't always fit nicely on a top of a Web site in the header area.
So we're going to need to create a really simplified non seal version of the logo so we can be able
to have multiple applications of our logo.
And that's going to be very common with almost any logo not every logo is going to fit perfectly in
that one format.
So we're going to be developing that a little bit later to make sure that we have a horizontal version
of the logo so we can work in digital formats.
So we could see kind of the iconography icons are not required.
I'd just like to have them because you know it's kind of nice to have a series of icons just for this
particular person.
I found it to be nice and also secondary colors not required what I did is I wanted to pull for my inspiration
boards some of those colors that I found that weren't didn't did not end up as primary colors but I
thought what if for some reason those colors are not working out for that particular format or add you
know I don't want to be stuck with these cool colors when I really want to have a high impact color.
And so that's why I chose some secondary colors that I thought were alternatives if I felt like a particular
ad needed to be much more brighter and vibrant and eye catching.
And so just kind of developing a secondary color palette and I have the hex codes underneath just so
I can copy and paste those hex codes whenever I start to develop online assets I can copy and paste
and I have a document I can go to and easily access that stuff that can further expand on the brand
assets including the background texture I created to create something subtle enough where I can put
text on top and it doesn't fight with it too much and I'll see when a layout your typography plan or
your font plan.
So what type of fonts can you use as there are multiple fonts that you can use in your brand is there
one you use for headlines.
And is there one that use for secondary lines.
Is there one you use for body copy if you have long blocks of copy.
This is great for your digital web site but it's also great when we create your PDA portfolio and other
kind of assets we can kind of have the setup.
So you have kind of a font or typography plan so you can literally copy and paste from this area you
can drag this over you you know what typeface is going to be this one's bitten Sands and this one's
commuters Sands light so I can already have that establish it's easy for me to go ahead and pick those
as a start to develop the branded assets and also application on darker backgrounds it's always great
to think about that I go through that and a lot of my design courses when we're developing brands and
logo designs how important it is to have your logo be as flexible as possible that means it needs to
work on darker backgrounds or so many situations where you're on a social media site and they have a
dark background and you're forced to use it.
This is great to have that option you're not limited you're not stuck in a box with your logo design
also we have invoices I'm just kind of.
This is a great way to show kind of how our brand and brand manual can be applied to an actual product.
So I decided to come up with a mock invoice.
Of course we're going to talk about invoicing software later in the class and there's some limitations
with what you can design on some of them.
Some of them like Quick Books is very flexible you can design a really custom invoice and some of them
like zip books which is a free invoicing tool they'll allow you to change your header they might allow
you to put a logo but they're not going to allow this kind of custom look.
So but I went ahead and kind of put one together just in case.
And just to kind of help to practice brand extension and help to kind of show how do I handle type and
text and layout how do I use the texture.
Are there any kind of things that can apply to other branded assets.
So in this case I have this kind of line system here was able to keep contact information was great
about developing this is once we develop a few items so we're going to do a social media post and a
business card next.
Once you develop a few items you can copy and paste a lot of those to keep the same look and consistency.
So when you already develop a first wiki I can copy and paste this little chunk of text and I can easily
apply it to a business card.
So here's the business card I applied kind of the same information and kind of the same style with the
lines.
So we're starting to develop that.
You can't develop your entire branded campaign without having to do real projects.
So sometimes you have to go back and revisit your brand.
And that's OK.
That's a very normal part of the branding process is going back maybe adding a new logo and new style
maybe tweaking something is when you start to apply it to other assets that maybe didn't work.
And so it's a back and forth creation process.
And don't be afraid if you kind of messed up and said oh my logo design is not working well there you
can find a way to adapt it or have a different version that works on it.
All part of the process.